# Chapter 2: Personnel Security and Risk Management Concepts

## Candidate Screening and Hiring
Employment candidate screening for a specific position is based on the sensitivity and classification defined by the job description. The sensitivity and classification of a specific position is dependent on the level of harm that could be caused by accidental or intentional violations of security by a person in the position. Thus, the thoroughness of the screening process should reflect the security of the position to be filled.

Employment candidate screening, background checks, reference checks, education verification, and security clearance validation are essential elements in proving that a candidate is adequate, qualified, and trustworthy for a secured position. Background checks include obtaining a candidate's work and educational history; checking references; verifying education; interviewing colleagues, neighbors, and friends; checking police and government records for arrests or illegal activities; verifying identity through fingerprints, driver's license, and birth certificate; and holding a personal interview. This process could also include a polygraph test, drug testing, and personality testing/evaluation.

Performing online background checks and reviewing the social networking accounts of applicants has become standard practice for many organizations. If a potential employee has posted inappropriate materials to their photo sharing site, social networking biographies, or public instant messaging services, then they are not as attractive a candidate as those who did not. Our actions in the public eye become permanent when they are recorded in text, photo, or video and then posted online. A general picture of a person's attitude, intelligence, loyalty, common sense, diligence, honesty, respect, consistency, and adherence to social norms and/or corporate culture can be gleaned quickly by viewing a person's online identity.

## Employment Agreements and Policies
When a new employee is hired, they should sign an employment agreement. Such a document outlines the rules and restrictions of the organization, the security policy, the acceptable use and activities policies, details of the job description, violations and consequences, and the length of time the position is to be filled by the employee. These items might be separate documents. In such a case, the employment agreement is used to verify that the employment candidate has read and understood the associated documentation for their prospective job position.

In addition to employment agreements, there may be other security-related documentation that must be addressed. One common document is a nondisclosure agreement (NDA). An NDA is used to protect the confidential information within an organization from being disclosed by a former employee. When a person signs an NDA, they agree not to disclose any information that is defined as confidential to anyone outside the organization. Violations of an NDA are often met with strict penalties.

## Onboarding and Termination Processes
```
Real World Scenario: Firing: Not Just a Pink Slip Anymore
Firing an employee has become a complex process. Gone are the days of firing merely by placing a pink slip in an employee's mail slot. In most IT-centric organizations, termination can create a situation in which the employee could cause harm, putting the organization at risk. That's why you need a well-designed exit interview process.

However, just having the process isn't enough. It has to be followed correctly every time. Unfortunately, this doesn't always happen. You might have heard of some fiasco caused by a botched termination procedure. Common examples include performing any of the following before the employee is officially informed of their termination (thus giving the employee prior warning of their termination):

The information technology (IT) department requesting the return of a notebook computer
Disabling a network account
Blocking a person's personal identification number (PIN) or smartcard for building entrance
Revoking a parking pass
Distributing a company reorganization chart
Positioning a new employee in the cubicle
Allowing layoff information to be leaked to the media

It should go without saying that in order for the exit interview and safe termination processes to function properly, they must be implemented in the correct order and at the correct time (that is, at the start of the exit interview), as in the following example:

Inform the person that they are relieved of their job.
Request the return of all access badges, keys, and company equipment.
Disable the person's electronic access to all aspects of the organization.
Remind the person about the NDA obligations.
Escort the person off the premises.
```

## Vendor, Consultant, and Contractor Agreements and Controls
 The following issues are commonly addressed in SLAs:

System uptime (as a percentage of overall operating time)
Maximum consecutive downtime (in seconds/minutes/and so on)
Peak load
Average load
Responsibility for diagnostics
Failover time (if redundancy is in place)
SLAs also commonly include financial and other 

## Compliance Policy Requirements

## Privacy Policy Requirements
