# Chapter 3: Business Continuity Planning

## Business Continuity vs. Disaster Recovery
The distinction between the two is one of perspective. Both activities help prepare an organization for a disaster. They intend to keep operations running continuously, when possible, and recover functions as quickly as possible if a disruption occurs. The perspective difference is that business continuity activities are typically strategically focused at a high level and center themselves on business processes and operations. Disaster recovery plans tend to be more tactical and describe technical activities such as recovery sites, backups, and fault tolerance.

BCP Process has four main steps:
1. Project Scope and Planning
- Perform a review of biz org from a crisis planning pov
- Create a BCP team with the approval of sr mgmt
    - At a min, have 1 rep from each core business dept
    - IT SME in areas covered by the BCP
    - Cyber team mbrs with knowlege of the BCP process
    - Physical sec and fac mgmt teams responsible for the phys plant
    - Attorneys familiar with corp legal, reg, and contractual responsibilities
    - HR mbrs who can address staffing issues
    - Public Relations mbrs
    - Sr mgmt reps with the ability to set the vision, define priorities, and allocate resources
- Assess the resources available to participate in biz continuity activities
    - BCP Development
    - BCP Testing, training, and maintenance
    - BCP Implementation
- Analyze the legal and regulatory landscape that governs an org's response to a catastrophic event

2. Business Impact Analysis
- Quantitative Impact Assessment
The preceding step consisted of the BCP team's drawing up a comprehensive list of the events that can be a threat to an organization. You probably recognized that some events are much more likely to happen than others. For example, an earthquake is a much more plausible risk than a tropical storm for a business located in Southern California. A company based in Florida might have the exact opposite likelihood that each risk would occur.

Annualized rate of occurence (ARO)
The exposure factor (EF) is the amount of damage that the risk poses to the asset, expressed as a percentage of the asset's value. 
For example, if the BCP team consults with fire experts and determines that a building fire would destroy 70 percent of the building, the exposure factor of the building to fire is 70 percent. 

The single loss expectancy (SLE) is the monetary loss expected each time the risk materializes. 
You can compute the SLE using the following formula: Continuing with the preceding example, if the building is worth $500,000, the single loss expectancy would be 70 percent of $500,000, or $350,000. You can interpret this figure to mean that you could expect a single fire in the building would cause $350,000 worth of damage. 

The annualized loss expectancy (ALE) is the monetary loss that the business expects to suffer as a result of the risk harming the asset during a typical year. 
The SLE is the amount of damage you expect each time a disaster strikes, and the ARO (from the likelihood analysis) is the number of times you expect a disaster to occur each year. You compute the ALE by simply multiplying those two numbers: Returning once again to our building example, fire experts might predict that a fire will occur in the building approximately once every 30 years, specifically determining that there is a 0.03 chance of a fire in any given year. The ALE is then 3 percent of the $350,000 SLE, or $10,500. You can interpret this figure to mean that the business should expect to lose $10,500 each year due to a fire in the building.

- Qualititative Impact Assessment
Loss of goodwill among your client base 
Loss of employees to other jobs after prolonged downtime 
Social/ethical responsibilities to the community 
Negative publicity

- Resource Prioritization


3. Continuity Planning
There are two primary subtasks invloved in continuity planning:

- Strategy Development

- Provisions and processes
    - People
        - People are numero uno!!
    - Buildings/Facilities
        - Hardening Provisions
        - Alternate Sites
    - Infrastructure
        - Physicall Hardening Systems
        - Alternative Systems

4. Plan Approval and Implementation
Plan Approval

Plan Implementation

Training and Education

BCP Documentation
- Continuity Planning Goals
- Statement of Importance
- Statement of Priorities
- Statement of Organizational Responsibility
- Statement of Urgency and Timing
- Risk Assessment
- Risk Acceptance/Mitigation
- Vital Records Program
- Emergency Response Guidelines
- Maintenance
- Testing and Exercises

## Exam Essentials
**Understand the four steps of the business continuity planning process.** Business continuity planning involves four distinct phases: project scope and planning, business impact analysis, continuity planning, and approval and implementation. Each task contributes to the overall goal of ensuring that business operations continue uninterrupted in the face of an emergency.  

**Describe how to perform the business organization analysis.** In the business organization analysis, the individuals responsible for leading the BCP process determine which departments and individuals have a stake in the business continuity plan. This analysis serves as the foundation for BCP team selection and, after validation by the BCP team, is used to guide the next stages of BCP development.  

**List the necessary members of the business continuity planning team.** The BCP team should contain, at a minimum, representatives from each of the operational and support departments; technical experts from the IT department; physical and IT security personnel with BCP skills; legal representatives familiar with corporate legal, regulatory, and contractual responsibilities; and representatives from senior management. Additional team members depend on the structure and nature of the organization.  

**Know the legal and regulatory requirements that face business continuity planners.** Business leaders must exercise due diligence to ensure that shareholders' interests are protected in the event disaster strikes. Some industries are also subject to federal, state, and local regulations that mandate specific BCP procedures. Many businesses also have contractual obligations to their clients that they must meet before, during, and after a disaster.  

**Explain the steps of the business impact analysis process.** The five stages of the business impact analysis process are the identification of priorities, risk identification, likelihood assessment, impact analysis, and resource prioritization.  

**Describe the process used to develop a continuity strategy.** During the strategy development phase, the BCP team determines which risks they will mitigate. In the provisions and processes phase, the team designs mechanisms and procedures that will mitigate identified risks. The plan must then be approved by senior management and implemented. Personnel must also receive training on their roles in the BCP process.  

**Explain the importance of comprehensively documenting an organization's business continuity plan.** Committing the plan to writing provides the organization with a written record of the procedures to follow when disaster strikes. It prevents the “it's in my head” syndrome and ensures the orderly progress of events in an emergency.

## Links
https://us.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/assuranceadvisoryservices/serviceorganization-smanagement
