# Chapter 5: Protecting Security of Assets

## Understanding Data Roles
1. Data Owners (aka organizational owner or senior manager)
2. Asset Owners (can be dept head)
3. Business/Mission Owners (can be program owner or information system owner)

## Cheatsheet
ID and define sensitive data
Data Classifications
Defining Asset Classifications
Use Security Baselines
    Low-Impact
    Mod-Impact
    High-Impact
    Privacy Control Baseline
Compairing, tailoring, scoping the Baseline
Standards selection

## Exam Essentials 
Understand the importance of data and asset classifications. Data owners are responsible for defining data and asset classifications and ensuring that data and systems are properly marked. Additionally, data owners define requirements to protect data at different classifications, such as encrypting sensitive data at rest and in transit. Data classifications are typically defined within security policies or data policies.  
Define PII and PHI. Personally identifiable information (PII) is any information that can identify an individual. Protected health information (PHI) is any health-related information that can be related to a specific person. Many laws and regulations mandate the protection of PII and PHI.  
Know how to manage sensitive information. Sensitive information is any type of classified information, and proper management helps prevent unauthorized disclosure resulting in a loss of confidentiality. Proper management includes marking, handling, storing, and destroying sensitive information. The two areas where organizations often miss the mark are adequately protecting backup media holding sensitive information and sanitizing media or equipment when it is at the end of its lifecycle.  
Describe the three data states. The three data states are at rest, in transit, and in use. Data at rest is any data stored on media such as hard drives or external media. Data in transit is any data transmitted over a network. Encryption methods protect data at rest and in transit. Data in use refers to data in memory and used by an application. Applications should flush memory buffers to remove data after it is no longer needed.  
Define DLP. Data loss prevention (DLP) systems detect and block data exfiltration attempts by scanning unencrypted files and looking for keywords and data patterns. Network-based systems (including cloud-based systems) scan files before they leave the network. Endpoint-based systems prevent users from copying or printing some files.  
Compare data destruction methods. Erasing a file doesn't delete it. Clearing media overwrites it with characters or bits. Purging repeats the clearing process multiple times and removes data so that the media can be reused. Degaussing removes data from tapes and magnetic hard disk drives, but it does not affect optical media or SSDs. Destruction methods include incineration, crushing, shredding, and disintegration.  
Describe data remanence. Data remanence is the data that remains on media after it should have been removed. Hard disk drives sometimes retain residual magnetic flux that can be read with advanced tools. Advanced tools can read slack space on a disk, which is unused space in clusters. Erasing data on a disk leaves data remanence.  
Understand record retention policies. Record retention policies ensure that data is kept in a usable state while it is needed and destroyed when it is no longer needed. Many laws and regulations mandate keeping data for a specific amount of time, but in the absence of formal regulations, organizations specify the retention period within a policy. Audit trail data needs to be kept long enough to reconstruct past incidents, but the organization must identify how far back they want to investigate. A current trend in many organizations is to reduce legal liabilities by implementing short retention policies with email.  
Know the difference between EOL and EOS. End-of-life (EOL) is the date announced by a vendor when sales of a product stop. However, the vendor still supports the product after EOL. End-of-support (EOS) identifies the date when a vendor will no longer support a product.  
Explain DRM. Digital rights management (DRM) methods provide copyright protection for copyrighted works. The purpose is to prevent the unauthorized use, modification, and distribution of copyrighted works.  
Explain CASB. A cloud access security broker (CASB) is placed logically between users and cloud resources. It can apply internal security controls to cloud resources. The CASB component can be placed on-premises or in the cloud. Define pseudonymization. Pseudonymization is the process of replacing some data elements with pseudonyms or aliases. It removes privacy data so that a dataset can be shared. However, the original data remains available in a separate dataset.  
Define tokenization. Tokenization replaces data elements with a string of characters or a token. Credit card processors replace credit card data with a token, and a third party holds the mapping to the original data and the token.  
Define anonymization. Anonymization replaces privacy data with useful but inaccurate data. The dataset can be shared and used for analysis purposes, but anonymization removes individual identities. Anonymization is permanent.  
Know the responsibilities of data roles. The data owner is the person responsible for classifying, labeling, and protecting data. System owners are responsible for the systems that process the data. Business and mission owners own the processes and ensure that the systems provide value to the organization. Data controllers decide what data to process and how to process it. Data processors are often the third-party entities that process data for an organization at the direction of the data controller. Administrators grant access to data based on guidelines provided by the data owners. A user, or subject, accesses data while performing work tasks. A custodian has day-to-day responsibilities for protecting and storing data.  Know about security control baselines. Security control baselines provide a listing of controls that an organization can apply as a baseline. Not all baselines apply to all organizations. Organizations apply scoping and tailoring techniques to adapt a baseline to their needs.
